<!-- desc: Converting Windows Jenkins to WSL/Docker -->
# 2020/04/14

## Doing Jenkins Over

Yesterday I was able to successfully get Jenkins up and running in a docker container on my Windows Home desktop using the new WSL2 from Windows 10 build 2004. I immediately attempted to setup and execute my Pipeline via SCM.

**WTF**: So the pipeline immediately failed. Ok? Lets try doing a pipeline without SCM (by copying and pasting the script). Worked fine. Checking logs of the Pipeline via SCM showed that there is a difference in behavior between with SCM and not SCM, where without SCM the pipeline makes no assumptions about the slave, but with SCM its assumed that the Server and the Slave are both on the same platform and all the pathing is ignored and my checkout() command falls apart. **This is second-rate behavior that I didn't expect of Jenkins.**

Starting over... to compensate for the lack of multi-platform awareness in Jenkins, I am rethinking my CI model. Before, I aimed to just host the master from docker and use a Windows node to perform the Godot exports and testing. Now I am going to attempt to do everything within WSL2 or Docker except for platform testing. Although I do believe that managing everything from the Windows GUI is less effort (when it works), having it all done in a POSIX platform does provide a significant amount of flexibility and closer maps to the general development seen in the Godot community.

**Goal:** The trick here is going to be setting up an environment that allows an XServer to execute GUI applications (e.g. Godot, Android Studio, Android Emulators) in a headless mode. I'd like this to be done in such a way that I can view the GUI (via RDP/VNC) and have it run headless when performing CI. Android Emulator uses qemu, so I am afraid I may run into some issues there, but I think we should be able to fall back to my Userbased Windows LocalNode in that case.

The defacto tools to accomplish this seem to be standard Xorg XWindow and Xvfb. Xvfb is the virtual framebuffer code that allows an allocation of virtual video memory that *mocks* a display. Some example usage of Xvfb:

```
# Install xvfb
sudo apt-get install xvfb

# Execute an application in xvfb
Xvfb :1 -screen 0 800x600x16
xvfb-run java -jar yourApplication.jar

# To get the current state of Xvfb:
#  * Run some instance of Xvfb
sudo apt install x11-apps
Xvfb -pixdepths 3 27 -fbdir /var/tmp
#  * Undump the X Window dump data
xwud -in /var/tmp/Xvfb_screen0
# Note: xwd is how you dump a screenshot to an X screen
#       xuwd is how you read the X screen dump data

# Live view of a display with x11vnc
sudo apt install x11vnc
x11vnc -display :99 -localhost &
vncviewer :0
```

Other concerns include having a desktop manager that works well within the WSL2 environment. I've installed KDE in the past, but the mouse response was questionable. WSL2 claims significant IO performance increase, perhaps that alone will fix everything.

In an attempt to minimize hard drive utilization and increase X Window responsiveness, I want to add a minimalistic window manager. The two lightweight managers that seem to be the most popular are fluxbox (MIT) and openbox (GPL). I'm going to give openbox a go since it has a stronger culture of remaining standards compliant (and its 100% OSS). Here is a comparison of the two: https://www.slant.co/versus/1294/1304/~fluxbox_vs_openbox

`sudo apt install openbox menu` 

Tested x11vnc with portable TightVNC: https://pendriveapps.com/portable-vnc-viewer-tightvnc/

`x11vnc -display :7 -listen $DOCKER_CONTAINER_IP &`

Here is what has worked so far:

```
sudo Xvfb :7 -fbdir /var/tmp
DISPLAY=:7 openbox-session
x11vnc -display :7 -listen 172.24.30.121 &
```

Well poop ... Xvfb doesn't work with GL (for now obvious to me reasons.) There is a chance that mesa could fill in the gap from an API context, but I'd rather not go there. I'm crossing my fingers that exporting from headless godot goes smoothly and I won't need to use any GL for checkout export, only testing. BUT, my hopes and dreams of doing android testing in docker/WSL is sort of  crushed for the time being (unless I wanted to deal with slow and header to debug environments.) Godot Editor is not working because of this limitation.

To open Godot Headless, needed to run:

`sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk-headless adb`

Update the editor settings at `~/.config/godot/editor_settings-3.tres`

Godot opens when you install:

`sudo apt install kde-plasma-desktop xrdp`

`sudo /etc/init.d/xrdp start`

Godot headless also starts to work:

`/mnt/c/Users/agrie/Downloads/Godot_v3.2.1-stable_linux_headless.64/Go
dot_v3.2.1-stable_linux_headless.64 --export-debug Android here.apk`
