# 2020/04/27

## ENTT

EnTT is a ECS library that provides the necessary code to support developing a ECS architecture using modern c++17 technique in a STL style. The has several pros and cons:

* Pro: It is very fast due it is large compile-time optimizations and type-safety.
* Pro: It provides a ton of quality of life (without performance degradation) inferences.
* Pro: Its completely modular and loosely coupled so you only need to include the bits you want.
* Pro: Its used professionally by some studios.
* Pro: MIT License
* Con: It is not a turn key solution, so you'll need to keep in mind that it supports an architecture rather than dictates an architecture. For example, it doesn't come with a canned engine or game loop to play with.
* Con: Not sure how extensible the allocator is or if it just uses the standard C++ allocator. In a previous ECS implementation, each part of the system (e.g. Entities, Components, Actions, Systems) could be allocated using their own allocator, therefore keeping them Data-Driven to decrease cache misses in the CPU.
* Con: It uses a lot of really advanced C++ techniques so troubleshooting misuse is going to be a bare.
* Documentation assumes a level of expertise that is not beginner. This is a fair place to start with a library like EnTT, but it doesn't give much leeway for off days.

Link To Wiki: [EnTT Wiki](https://github.com/skypjack/entt/wiki)

In conclusion, I am going to throw away my old ECS and reimplement with EnTT. It seems like a really slick system and is still being updated as of April 2020.