<!-- desc: Exporting APPX from Godot (UWP) -->
# 2020/04/17

## Researching Creating UWP

Create new self-signed certificate in PowerShell with:

`New-SelfSignedCertificate -Type Custom -Subject "CN=Contoso Software, O=Contoso Corporation, C=US" -KeyUsage DigitalSignature -FriendlyName "Your friendly name goes here" -CertStoreLocation "Cert:\CurrentUser\My" -TextExtension @("2.5.29.37={text}1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3", "2.5.29.19={text}")`

`2.5.29.37={text}1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3` - This means this cert can be used for code signing.

`2.5.29.19={text}` - This certificate is an "end entity", not a certificate authority.

`Cert:/` - This is the top of the local certificate store.

Copy certificate with password:

```
$password = ConvertTo-SecureString -String <Your Password> -Force -AsPlainText 
Export-PfxCertificate -cert "Cert:\CurrentUser\My\<Certificate Thumbprint>" -FilePath <FilePath>.pfx -Password $password
```

Add the following into AppxManifest.xml:

`<Identity Name="Contoso.AssetTracker"     Version="1.0.0.0"     Publisher="CN=Contoso Software, O=Contoso Corporation, C=US"/>`

Note: Hash algorithm from MakeAppx.exe must match SignTool hash algorithm. (SHA256 is default for makeappx.exe) You can see this by extracting AppxBlockMap.xml and locating `HashMethod="http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#sha256"` SHA1 is not available in MAkeAppx.exe. Other algorithms include:

* `http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmldsig-more#sha384`

* `http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#sha512`

Sign with pfx:

`SignTool sign /fd <Hash Algorithm> /a /f <Path to Certificate>.pfx /p <Your Password> <File path>.[appx|msix]`

Sign from store:

`SignTool sign /fd <Hash Algorithm> /n <Name of Certificate> <File Path>.[appx|msix]`

From [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/internet-explorer/ie-developer/platform-apis/ms537361(v=vs.85)):

> ## Criteria for Individual Certification
>
> Applicants for an individual *software publishing certificate* must meet the following criteria:
>
> |                |                                                              |
> | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
> | Identification | Applicants must submit their name, address, and other material that will be checked against an independent consumer database to validate their credentials. |
> | The Pledge     | Applicants must pledge that they cannot and will not distribute software that they know, or should have known, contains viruses or would otherwise maliciously harm the user's computer or code. |
>
> The value of an individual *software publishing certificate* is in the information it provides to users so they can decide whether or not to download the code. Knowing who authored the code, and that the bits have not been altered from the time the code was signed to the present, is reassuring information. Additionally, a browser could be used to access a publisher's Web pages so the user can obtain detailed information about the signed code, the author, and the certificate authority. After learning about this code and the author, the user might decide to run the code, or all future code, coming from this particular individual.
>
> 
>
> ## The Application Process
>
> These are the steps to apply for and grant a certificate:
>
> 1. Apply for a *software publishing certificate*.
>
>    A software publisher's request for certification is sent to the *LRA*. (In a simpler model, it is sent to the *certification authority*.) It is expected that *certification authority*s and *LRA*s will have Web sites that walk the applicant through the application process. Applicants will be able to look at the entire policy and practices statements of the *certification authority* or *LRA*. The utilities an applicant needs to generate signatures, such as Authenticode, should also be available.
>
>    The applicant must generate a key pair using either hardware or software encryption technology. The public key is sent to the *LRA* during the application process. For individuals, all of the necessary information can be transferred online. For commercial publishers, because of the identity requirements, proof of identification must be sent by mail or courier.
>
> 2. Verify the applicant's credentials.
>
>    Depending on the contract between the *certification authority* and the *LRA*, these companies will examine the evidence to verify an applicant's credentials. To do this, they may employ external contractors such as Dun & Bradstreet.
>
> 3. Generate and issue the software publisher *X.509 certificate*.
>
>    After the *certification authority* has decided that the applicant meets the policy criteria, it generates a *software publishing certificate*. The *software publishing certificate* contains multiple certificates conforming to the industry standard *X.509 certificate* format with Version 3 extensions. The *software publishing certificate* is distributed in a digital signature with the publisher's software file to identify the publisher and provide the publisher's public key. The digital signature is also used by the receiver of the file to verify that the file has not been modified since it was signed.
>
>    The *software publishing certificate* is stored by the *certification authority* for reference, and a copy is returned to the applicant via electronic mail.
>
>    The publisher should review the contents of the certificate and verify that the public key works with the private key. After accepting the certificate, the publisher should include a copy in all published software signed with the private key.
>
>    Commercial developers can expect a response to their application in less than two weeks. While there is no limit to the number of certificates commercial software publishers can obtain, it is up to the publisher to determine who gets a certificate, and how code is signed and distributed.
>
> 4. Distribute signed software.
>
>    The publisher can now begin signing and distributing software on the Internet. Publishers use utility programs to sign the software they intend to publish. The utility programs use the private key to generate a digital signature on a digest of the binary file and create a signature file containing the signed content of a *public key certificate standard (PKCS) #7* signed-data object. (For more information about *PKCS #7*, see the RSA specification listed in [Appendix D: Suggested Reading](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/internet-explorer/ie-developer/platform-apis/ms537357(v%3dvs.85)).) The *PKCS #7* signed-data object also contains a copy of the *software publishing certificate*. For *portable executable image* format files, the *PKCS #7* signature file contents are stored in the binary file itself, in an additional section.

Note: In summary, we want to self sign until we're ready to actually deploy or test deploy.



## Creating Self-Signed Key and Cert for Godot UWP Exporting

We need to create self-signed credentials to export and use UWP exports. UWP exports are universal windows applications that are verified with code signing within Windows. When an application is not signed, you can not install the application. When an application is signed and not trusted, it reports as such. And when an application is signed with a trusted identity, it just works. This latter state is our goal.

Before we being, we need to know several things:

* *Where is the key store and how will we protect the key?* I personally am going to just have a C:\keystore (or K:\) and /keystore that is the root of all my secret files. In the end, I'll want to only use production keys in volatile environments and keep them at rest in encrypted filesystems or hardware.
* *What is the Subject Name of the certificate?* Since I am only at the beginning of attempting to flesh out publication, I don't know if this is something that will be provided by the market gateway or if I'll have to just generate something myself. For now, I've just come up with a pseudo-fictitious company name. Chenzware, located in the US which becomes: CN=Chenzware, O=Chenzware, C=US. Not sure if a certificate per product family or a certificate per division would be better, but for now this could be considered the "everything certificate".
* *You'll need administrator access to give the new certificate **local trust**.* 

To begin creating a certificate, install the Windows SDK. Its about 3GB and doesn't include Visual Studio (yay!). After adding the SDK binaries to the path or going to the binary folder, execute the following commands.

From powershell, create certificate (password "gofish"):

```
makecert.exe /n "CN=Chenzware, O=Chenzware, C=US" /r /h 0 /eku "1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3,1.3.6.1.4.1.311.10.3.13" /e 04/17/2024 /sv C:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.pvk C:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.cer
```

Returns: `Succeeded`

Create a pfx (password "gofish"):

```
pvk2pfx.exe /pvk C:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.pvk /pi gofish /spc C:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.cer /pfx c:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.pfx /po gofish
```

Returns *nothing* on success.

From powershell **as Administrator**:

```
certutil.exe -addStore TrustedPeople C:\projects\stable\keystore\Chenzware.cer
```

When successful, should look something like:

```
TrustedPeople "Trusted People"
Signature matches Public Key
Certificate "Chenzware" added to store.
CertUtil: -addstore command completed successfully.
```

To export an APPX from Godot, I had to set some value:

* Display Name: `Potty Time`

* Short Name: `PottyTime`

* Unique Name: `PottyTime`

* Description: `This is a null project.` (BUG: Godot doesn't make this required. ([#37959](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/37959)))
* Publisher: `CN=Chenzware, O=Chenzware, C=US` (as specified in the certificate above)

* Publisher Display Name: `Chenzware`

* Product GUID: *Used a uuidgen output*

* Publisher GUID: *Used a uuidgen output*

* (Optional) Certificate: `C:/projects/stable/keystore/MyKey.pfx`

* (Optional) Password `gofish`

Setting the Signtool in Export/UWP settings within Godot Editor settings well automatically sign the project on export. ([#721](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-proposals/issues/721)) ([#3399](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues/3399))

(Optionally?) Sign code with the following command:

```
SignTool sign /fd SHA256 /a /f C:\projects\stable\keystore\MyKey.pfx /p gofish package.appx
```

