<!-- desc: Rust On Windows (is no good.) -->
# 2020/04/13



## Rust On Windows for Godot

Attempted to install Rust on my Windows machine for godot-rust bindings. If I had known the amount of bull shit involved in this task, I would have rented a bobcat ahead of time. Wow... Rust on windows requires C++ Build Tools to be installed separately. This wouldn't be a big deal and not unlike other languages except the visual studio tools expect some of the shared libraries to be installed on the system drive. **BS!** ... ok find, installed the extra few gigs of toolchain. Ran the rustup-init.exe file with CARGO_HOME and and RUSTUP_HOME modified so everything would be contained within my D:\ drive. Nope! Seems like there is a bug that prevents the installation process from completing in this context. Specifically something about its in-ability to create a link between two rust files. I would love to troubleshoot some more, but the verbose argument does squat for me. **BS!** So I said, ok ok, lets just install the multi-gigabyte rust application into my f-ing home directory. Works great. Now lets grab those godot-rust bindings and run the good-ole `cargo build` in the example project. Boom, gdnative is unable to proceed. Docs say I need LLVM ... no problem, this is a really mature and wide spread product. Let me just grab the pre-built windows installer and run that. `cargo build` again and now I am getting a missing llvm-config error. WTF? Turns out that the llvm-config isn't included in the windows pre-built package, you have to install it from source code to get that functionality. **BS!** Ok, what does it take to build LLVM for windows? CMAKE 3.5+, no problem. Python for testing, no, gnuwin32 tools for misc dependencies, no problem. Visual Studio 2017+ ... WTF? So now I've some full circle where I wanted to avoid Visual Studio and I now have to install the 10s of gigs just to get a f-ing llvm-config binary so rust can know where to find the llvm home directory. **BS!**

For now, I just wanted to check out rust bindings with godot, but with all this hassle, rust tools are apparently no where near as mature as I had thought. I plan on writing up something on this adventure in a separate non-journal entry.



## Game Design Patterns

**Bob Nystrom**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxI3Eu5DPwE

gameprogrammingpatterns.com

**Tarn Adams**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4-7TtPX5uhg



## WSL2 Upgrade

Signed up for Windows Insider

Updated Windows to build 2004.

Waited for update to complete.

**REBOOT**

Enabled the required windows features and then rebooted.

`dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart `
`dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart`

**REBOOT**

Initially intended to simply convert my existing Ubuntu WSL1 instance to WSL2. It never worked for various reasons. Instead of fretting about it, I've simply installed a new Ubuntu WSL2 instance. I **really** want the docker goodness that comes with WSL2!!

Docker Desktop now includes an experimental feature that allows it to connect to the WSL2 dockerd. [Docker Desktop Edge](https://download.docker.com/win/edge/Docker%20Desktop%20Installer.exe)
