# 2020/04/19

# Architectures

## Personal Considerations

Models must include game logic for multiplayer games so that rules are not violated locally.



## MVC - Model View Controller

Model - Model of problem domain, discrete state  OR Data-CRUD

View - Visual representation of the model, presentation filter OR Interface/Detection (Has reference to controller and view?)

Controller - Link between user and system (UI) OR Decision/Action

[Understanding Model-View-Controller](https://blog.codinghorror.com/understanding-model-view-controller/)

**Pros**:

* When this easily maps to the problem domain, it drastically simplifies code.
* Web development and information presentation/input works well with MVC

**Cons**: 

* The definition between the view and controller can become fuzzy when the objects in the view become the user interface themselves.
* The view must communicate with the controller if it owns the UI that the user sees.

## AMVCC - Application - Model - View - Controller - Components

[Unity with MVC: How to Level Up Your Game Development](https://www.toptal.com/unity-unity3d/unity-with-mvc-how-to-level-up-your-game-development)

Application - Root node

Model - Data CRUD (Never access views or query controller)

View - Rendering / Interface / Detection (Never stores authoritative data, never mutates Models)

Controller - Logic / Workflow / Decision / Action (Never stores authoritative data)

Components - Reusable script without state notify, store, or decision.

## MVP - Model View Presenter

Model - defines data

View - displays data

Presenter - acts upon model and view. Retrieves data from model and formats/filters for view.

## MVVM - Model - View - ViewModel

Model - the data

ViewModel - presentation logic ... automates the updating of bound data that view depends on.

View - user interface (structure, layout, appearance)

Note: In contrast to MVP and MVC, a ViewModel has no reference to View. The View has references to the data within the ViewModel.

*Note: This architecture is the worst.*

## Martin Fowler

[GUI Architectures](https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/uiArchs.html)

* Domain Model - Purely data associated with the domain.
* Presentation Model - Model that represents the data associated with presenting the domain data (e.g. color of data).
* Application Model - View may update from domain model, notifies application model and presenter.
* Observer Synchronization - When something is updated in model, observers are updated.
* Supervising Controller - View contains most of view logic, presenter handles more complex scenarios
* Passive View - All view logic moved to presenter.

## Conclusion

MVP seems like the natural pattern that is used within a Scene Graph.  Breaking down MVP a bit more, we get at least 2 different models; the domain model, and the presentation model. The presenter is also broken down into the view logic and the input-event decision logic. As a supervising controller, some of the view logic may be delegated to the View object, *although I'm unsure of the demarcation in this case.*

### Domain model

* Represents the entire game state and the rules of the game.

### Presentation model

* Represents the state of the GUI widgets and view logic.

### View

Re-usable widgets/nodes that are rendered as a result of the presentation model.

### Controller

Receiver of user input into the system.

