# 2020/04/18

## Double Right Click

Was watching a 5 hour video today and wanted to work on some other stuff while it was playing. In the past I've always just resized my browser so it could sit in the corner of the screen. The trouble with this is that youtube adds all kind of margin noise that you can't get rid of without making the video canvas to small. Well, I decided that if my phone can handle doing picture in picture without a browser in the foreground, perhaps my desktop should be able to accomplish this. After looking up picture in picture for windows 10 on google, about 30 seconds later I had learned the solution. When you load and start a youtube video, if you double right click the video canvas, it brings up what appears to be a browser context menu (in contrast to the HTML5 context menu). Low and behold, there is a "Picture in picture" option that pops the video canvas into its own window that can be dragged around, resized, and stays on top.

Woot!

## (PottyTime is) Sokoban

Just realized that Potty Time is based on an old game called [Sokoban](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sokoban) from 1982. In summary, Sokoban has some interesting attributes for problem solving and AI. This is great because now I should be able to study Sokoban material to see if there are more clever ways to layout the levels. In addition to that, I've also discovered that Jonathan Blow (creator of Braid and Witness) is also creating a Sokoban type of game. He has a [long video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_tMb7OS2TOU&list=WL&index=10&t=406s) on managing the game states on YouTube that I viewed today. (Got to 3:10:00 of 4:49:00 before I quit.)

The outcome of this video is that in turn based games, especially ones with asynchronous actions, using a transactional system with conflict detection and resolution is a great design pattern. Some follow up has lead me to the StackOverflow question: [What Design Pattern to use to implement transaction or chaining mechanism?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33593767/what-design-pattern-to-use-to-implement-transaction-or-chaining-mechanism) The question isn't really what gave me the ah-ha moment, but some of the answers really triggered the concept. I've been aware of transactions from a database point of view for years, but I never made the connection that a discrete game state should be treated the same. 

What I am thinking about doing is developing my Action based system a bit more and then bundling the Actions into Transactions to see where that puts me. Each transaction is tracked as committed or uncommitted and assigned the time of the transactional request for priority sorting. There is still a weird place where we need to recursively sanity check that all the Actions within a transaction are legal, but we refrain from updating the state until the transaction is committed. Also, adding and logging the transactions gives us a natural undo mechanism.

Some other misc. takeaways from the video was that I really liked how their engine was able to interpolate at different speeds. So instead of halting all execution, the game was still legit, but slowed the tweens down globally. (I am assuming that the animations blocked further transactions until a certain threshold.) I also really like the console interface. I've always wanted a console interface in all of my games, but seeing it used in something not released has really inspired me. I think that my design patterns fit a console interaction better now anyway.

