# 2020/04/23

## Docker data-root Configuration

In Docker Desktop (Edge), you are suppose to be able to simply setup a `daemon.json` file so that the data-root setting points where you want the docker data (e.g. images, volumes). On windows, it should look something like this configuration JSON content:

```json
{
  "registry-mirrors": [],
  "insecure-registries": [],
  "debug": true,
  "experimental": true,
  "data-root": "D:\\docker\\data"
}
```

Alas, when you setup that configuration and attempt to restart the service it just hangs while loading. Even better, when you attempt to reset to factory defaults, it will also hang and eventually come back with a prompt asking you if you'd like to reset to factory defaults. **WTF**. 

An elegant work around suggested by the internet was to simply create a junction link (a hard link for directories in Windows) from the default Docker data directory to the location you really want the data to live in.  Before you begin, you'll want to save, purge, and uninstall your Docker Desktop install. Following that, you can move the folder at C:\Users\\*user*\AppData\Local\Docker to a more suitable drive. After that, create the junction link using the following example of the link creation command:

```
C:\>mklink /J C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Local\Docker D:\docker\data\Docker
Junction created for C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Local\Docker <<===>> D:\docker\data\Docker
```

After this, simply install Docker Desktop again. The new location won't really be initialized until the Docker service is up and running, so you'll want to start the Docker service to verify that everything is going where you want it to.

Note: My C drive is formatted with NTFS and my D drive is formatted with exFAT. With links between other filesystem formats may produce different results.